--- 
layout: post
title: Nazis, Addiction, and History
---

So, I have an addictive personality. I’m lucky in that the things that have really addicted me throughout my life haven’t been intentionally engineered to make me physically hooked on them, but I have fought my battles none the less. This recognition of my addiction is part of the reason I have never tried most drugs, and try to remain extremely cognizant of my alcohol, soda, and even unhealthy food intake.

For me, my vice has always been video games. Slipping into imaginary worlds with instant, attainable gratification? Right up my Peter Pan complexed alley. This addiction isn’t, I don’t think, inherently malicious; I don’t know of any friends or family that have been harmed by it. However, when I think of the time I’ve put in to conquering imaginary foes, demons, and dragons, I wonder what I could have in my life if I’d applied that time elsewhere; a concert pianist? a master chef? a journeyman tailor?

I never had the stones to call my addiction what it was until my sophomore year in college. I was in an English class, composition or something, and somehow the professor worked in our viewing of a short documentary on gaming, and its potential physical addiction. It’s clear to me now the professor was trying to fight a moral battle with her professional position, but I’m glad she did; I never understood that my brain had become chemically addicted to the bright lights and rewards that were presented to me, until then.

Ever since that year, my fight has constantly been going. For much of the time, I lost. It is one of my greater regrets of college that I wasted so much time gaming rather than furthering my studies, seeing friends, or other extracurriculars (read: pottery). I like to think I’m winning it now, but often it’s hard to tell. I still check into YouTube and watch League of Legends world finals from time to time.

When I’m winning the fight, one of the many things I do is read. I’ve grown to really enjoy reading once more, and have just finished a book about an American ambassador in Hitler’s Berlin. It’s a great book, titled In The Garden of Beasts. One of the things that struck me most bizarrely about it all was how little people were understanding the situation. It seemed like with every new anti-semitic law signed in, the rest of Europe and the US would proclaim that they wouldn’t stand for this, and they’d enact economic sanctions, etc. The actual response? Pretty much absolutely nothing.

This really trips me out. Nowadays, people seem to blindly point fingers at the German population then, asking “How could they have let that leader rise to power?” Nobody ever seems to want to turn that finger around, and ask: “How in the world did we let that leader screw over the German people?”

Unfortunately, the world’s ‘sophomore year’ moment, when they realized they had a problem on their hands, was after a country, an entire country, had been invaded and conquered. Before this, Hitler had assassinated, en masse, his potential competition, and systematically put legislation and protocol in place to push Jews out of the country, dead or alive.

So, how in the world does it all tie in? Why the talk about video games, then the talk about Hitler? I guess I wanted to talk about one of my greatest fears. It seems like, today, we are a very addictive society. I should preface this by saying I don’t think addiction is always bad; I like to think it’s what made me a good soccer player, solve some great Organic Chemistry problems, and really dig to understand things that interest me. However, the addictions I see today, in our society, aren’t so hot. Were we addicted to the pursuit of peace, or bettering our neighbor, or producing beautiful art, or helping our environment, well that would be some really great shit. What I actually see are more akin to addiction to acquiring wealth, addiction to material goods, addiction to homogenizing things, and addiction to violence.

My great fear that I’d hoped to talk about is that we won’t be able to overcome these addictions. I fear our sophomore year will be too late for many. What will it look like? It might look like the death of tens of thousands due to a US invasion of an oil rich country to secure more of the ever dwindling oil. It might look like mass assassinations of Brazilian environmentalists trying to protect the rainforest. It might look like all universities becoming trade schools. I’m not sure.

History seems to have this ability to look back with added clarity (more or less. read: Columbus Day ??? ). I worry, quite a bit that my children’s generation, and their children, will look back at our generation as the generation of addicts. We seem to be realizing all these lifestyle and societal trends are terrible for not only ourselves, but also other people we share this Earth with, and seemingly the Earth itself in general. However, we also seem to be doing not a dang thing about it. I worry we’re appeasing our own demons rather than taking them head on, and the metaphorical WWIII that will be fought in our own homes and hearts will leave us exhausted and defeated.

Yet! This worry is not without its counterpart. I see people from all areas and classes investigating new ways to live their lives, ways that can be kind to themselves and their surroundings. I see a movement of people that in a culture that says MORE! MORE! MORE!, have chosen less. Intentionally. Things like these give me hope.

The Peter Pan complex in me still likes to give a romantic, fantastical spin to things. I like to tell myself that there are plenty of demons and dragons to fight in the real world. I struggle often to overcome my addictions so that I can fight them with the courage and discipline I feel they require. I’m hoping that the society I’m living in is right by my side.