--- 
layout: post
title: Thoughts on Politics
--- 

As much as it pains me to say it, it looks like Bernie has lost the Democratic nomination. As a result, the two candidates it seems I’ll be choosing from on the general ballot who have any chance of winning are Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump. Ignoring the absurdity of that last name being on the ballot for the ‘leader of the free world,’ this choice brings forwards some bigger topics for me.

The first of these is money. The bipartisan aspect of this is that in this presidential race alone, before even entering general elections, nearly $400 million has been spent.<sup><a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/overview/" target="_blank">link</a></sup> Individually for our party leaders: Hillary at $200 million,<sup><a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/pres16/candidate.php?id=N00000019" target="_blank">link</a></sup> Donald at $60 million.<sup><a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/pres16/candidate.php?cycle=2016&amp;id=N00023864&amp;type=f" target="_blank">link</a></sup> The plot of course thickens if we take a closer look at these numbers. For Hillary, the vast majority of this stems from large contributions, whereas Donald is primarily self financed. Hillary’s top five donors are all in the finance industry, with an average of $5.8 million.<sup><a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/pres16/contrib.php?cycle=2016&amp;id=N00000019&amp;type=f" target="_blank">link</a></sup> Donald’s: a mix of entertainment, insurance, finance and construction, with an average of $52 thousand.<sup><a href="https://www.opensecrets.org/pres16/contrib.php?cycle=2016&amp;id=N00023864&amp;type=f" target="_blank">link</a></sup>

This, for me, is a rather terrible overview. I understand that the history of American politics is pretty well drenched in money, very much even including our founding as a nation. However, I guess in my overly optimistic youth, I had hoped things had changed due to ease of access to relevant information. The reality is that I effectively have the choice of voting for an incredibly rich egoist who seems to be running for president just to prove he can, or an incredibly rich politician who is so deeply invested in the interest of the finance industry that it’s difficult to believe that she will put the good of the general public first.

This despair over the lesser of two evils brings me to the second large topic this election has brought forward: the tragic nature of our two party system. The reason I use the term tragic is that I feel there is a much better option on the table (Green Party), but people are still far too entrenched in their own parties to consider a different option. Both of the main parties in this country appear to have roots far too deep with private interests, and I attribute this in large part to why the American people are feeling so disenfranchised from their government. Furthermore, the corporations primarily responsible for the distribution of media and information in our culture are certainly not separate from these invested private interests. The cycle, then, perpetuates itself by keeping those candidates who I feel would be best for the American people, and global civilization, in the dark because they do not pander to the interests of large corporations, corporations whose interests I do not feel at all tend to align with those of the good of America, humanity, or the planet.

Finally, on a positive note, this election has brought me to one last conclusion: the American people can give a damn about politics. I don’t know that I’ve ever seen as many people get excited about the political process (not surprising given my youth, but still). Unfortunately, I think this excitement is easily distorted by the spreading of dishonest information. However! If, as a citizenship, we can nurture this interest into a prolonged relationship of scrutiny and care for our political process, I think this country can be ‘Great Again’.

I don’t think it will be an easy transition. I think individuals need to be engaged with politics even more than they are with football or soccer or any other sport. When political engagement becomes America’s new pastime, I think we’ll see better representation at the local, state, and federal levels. I’ve found that the American people tend to care about each other and about their communities, and I see no reason why this can’t be extrapolated into a global consciousness and stewardship. I see hurdles abound, yes: the military industrial complex, the saturation of our lives with advertisements, the interests of private interest in general in our political process. However, I’m also an optimist, and honestly feel that none of these hurdles are so great that they can’t be overcome.