---
layout: post
title: Brain Plasticity
---

So, I’m relatively happy with the person I am today. I usually attribute this to a fairly even split of the ol’ nature vs nurture argument: I’m extremely grateful for the (usually) healthy and capable body I was born into, and the mind that came along with it – i.e., the nature. I’m also extremely grateful for my parents, friends, and lately self for sculpting that mind into the way it operates today – i.e., the nurture. I love that I can hop on a bike and pedal my way into the mountains around the beautiful town I live in. I love that I can, and often do, try to apply my thoughts towards bigger pictures and complex topics.

A lot of that sculpting that has happened throughout my years has been through positive encouragement. I’m extraordinarily blessed to have parents that support me relentlessly, and who remind me often of my intelligence and capabilities. However, that statement of “You’re smart,” repeated over and over in my childhood, coupled with the quick to condemn society I grew/am growing up in (think: football’s for idiots, poetry is for fags) lead to an internal, intellect based arrogance for much of my young adult life. I was fast to think I was above something or that somebody’s actions or beliefs were stupid. These thoughts were certainly tempered against the good that my parents tried to instill in me; I knew I was supposed to consider the more positive alternatives, but I rarely did. Though I didn’t show it, I often found my thoughts to be that of an elitist.

Then, my junior year of college, I decided to embark on a mental experiment. I had this friend who I would often see around campus that always inspired me; they radiated positive energy, and I was filled with admiration. I decided that I wanted to try to be more like them, and told myself every time I had a negative thought, I’d force myself to consider, argue for, and believe in the positive alternative. Though I’d intentionally strengthened my mind in the past, this was my first foray into intentionally directing it.

The process was slow (and on going). Often I’d forget my goal and convictions, and would slip. However, I like to think that, at some point, it started to work. My thought patterns started to lean towards positive drastically more often, within the period of only a few months. Though I still find negative thoughts in my head when I am tired or stressed, I can look back and confidently see progress. My belief, and practice, in shaping my own thoughts had begun. From then on I’ve intentionally tried to sculpt my mind, from daily practices to long journeys.

Much of that sculpting has occurred when I travel. In my twenty four years on this planet, whenever I look back, there are few experiences I can attribute a greater growth of self and sense of fulfillment to than whenever I have traveled. I think it has to do with the required adaptation of removing yourself from your comfort zone, coupled with reminders all around you of how vast and wonderful the planet we live on truly is. Whenever I travel, I feel I make leaps and bounds towards becoming the person I’d like to become, and having my mind operate in the manners I would like it to operate in.

However, lately I have found myself at a moral dilemma. One of the major problems I see in the world, and have decided to commit much of my life to in an attempt to ‘fix’, is the unsustainable nature of modern Western society. Modern travel, unfortunately, absolutely falls into this problem (check out this article). My dilemma, then, is the following: how do I continue living the life I want to aspire towards to, while also trying to embody the change I would like to see to help the world I love?

Here is my conclusion: I’ve decided to be uncool. Traveling is the real bee’s knees in my generation; everybody is always talking about the trips they’re taking, showing off photos, and trying to fill their passports. John Doe is the coolest cat around when his Facebook feed fills up with posts from his scuba diving trip in Thailand. In my opinion, this is totally awesome. One of the definite positives I see in the culture of people I identify with is a desire to get out of their usual humdrum and experience some exquisite shit, bettering themselves along the way.

This makes my dilemma even more difficult. By minimizing travel, I am not only putting off experiences that I feel are some of the best possible in this existence, I am also, in a manner, removing myself from one of the mainstream currents of my peers, a stream whose direction I happen to dig.

Yet, this is where my adventures into my own consciousness and existence come into play. Once I decided the embodiment of the principles I believe in was more important to me than seeing as much of the world as I can as quickly as I can, I began the process of lessening my desire to travel. Now, I know what you’re thinking: “Why the hell would you do that to yourself?” It’s not as bad as it sounds, and I should’ve phrased it differently: I’ve begun the process of loving my humdrum life, instead. The desire for travel is still there, but it is now opposed to an intense satisfaction of everyday existence, rather than an everyday existence I feel I always want to escape from.

It’s been a wonderful thing to stumble upon. In an attempt to be good to the planet, I feel my everyday life has improved drastically. Don’t get me wrong, there are still shitty times. I still get stressed, still feel down, still feel all the ‘negative’ emotions of life. However, I find more of my time spent in a quiet joy and satisfaction. Getting here, in a sense, was an extension of that same trip back in college. This time, however, I extrapolated positivity from just my thought process to my life style (or at least, am trying to). I intentionally try to eat and drink healthy so my body stays feeling well, a foundation for a positive day I feel is imperative; I spend a small, yet noticeable chunk of time in meditation and yoga, trying to approach a sense of inner peace where I can view myself with only love and affection; I try to find balance in my life between work, longterm fulfillment, and short term enjoyment; I try to keep a home that is clean and welcoming.

