---
layout: post
title: Collective Maturation
---

I like to think I’m at a point in my life where I have begun to mature. The unbridled growth and learning of my youth has begun to be haltered and steered, and I hope that I’ve begun to reflect upon some of the deeper trends in existence and how I’d like to address them with my time here. There’s a very real chance that this is either completely wrong or inapplicable; perhaps I am not at all a mature individual, nor maturing; perhaps maturation is an ongoing process that is in direct proportion to time, or maybe a false concept completely. However, if just for my ego’s sake, I hope I’m at least partially right. 

One of these ‘deeper’ trends I find myself reflecting on more and more is the history, present state, and trajectory of humanity. Usually these thoughts lead me to consider humanity as a whole, or a collection of large societal entities, part of which I discussed <a href="{% post_url 2016-02-06-civilization-consumerism-risks %}" target="_blank">here</a>. As I sit in the rain, socked in by clouds on my patio, however, it becomes easier to look internally first. I’m looking at humanity as a collection of individuals, rather than a collection of societies or even one species as a whole. Thus, my reflections upon humanity sharpen to, primarily, one question: what drives the individual? 

What makes us tick? What makes me sit in the rain tapping away at my laptop? Why do we like the things we like? Why do we want to build houses, drive cars, have sex, watch movies, climb mountains, get high, make money, run marathons? 

I tend to view these questions through the lens of nature vs nurture, and it’s my belief that the answer to most of these questions is a foundation of nature, with usually a heap of nurture on top. From a nature standpoint, species that didn’t have the drive or ability to acquire and maintain energy, shelter themselves from predators and the elements, and pass on their genes to the next generation, died off. (I know I’m leaving a ton out here, but stay with me for brevity.) After these core foundations of life, nurture begins to show its presence.

Much of the influence of ‘nurture’, or those forces that aren’t derived from evolutionary imperatives, comes from the want to fit in with a group. It is a fine line here as I believe the desire to be loved and fit in comes as a survival mechanism so that you are not ostracized from the strength of packs, but the way *our* pack interacts is certainly not one of biological imperatives. Your worldview is sculpted from your surroundings, and you form your own conclusions about what is normal, courageous, sexy, etc. Then, that you may address the needs of shelter, energy, and sex, you live your life in a way that is responsive to that worldview. 

Though a bit tangential, it is through this argument that I understand the current state of humanity. I feel we are a collection of individuals, living our lives in correspondence to our ever evolving worldviews, that we may get food, live in shelter, and pass on our genes. Further, I believe the society we inherit our worldview from has been steadily shifting towards that of a hedonistic mindset. From technologies to free up time and energy, to the decline of religion in the general population, I feel an amalgam of factors are leading us more and more towards fitting in through satisfying our every urge. 

As I reflect on this on my porch, looking into the woods and listening to the rain, it is difficult to not view this trend from my frequent position of an environmental view point. What does it mean when more and more individuals find the drive of their existence through hedonism? From the environmentalist standpoint, it is difficult to find an angle where this is a good thing. Bigger homes and new cars do nothing good for helping the planet we call home (though you could debate the positives of establishing economic trends for transportation and living through more sustainable avenues). 

The question I’m left with is this: just as I hope I, as an individual, am maturing, is it possible that we, as a collection of individuals, can also mature? If ever there was a point in history where this seemed most likely, it has to be now. Through technologies that so greatly facilitate communication and the spreading of information, we potentially now have the capacity to look at our existence in this universe with a more accurate eye. I hope we are beginning to have the desire and tools to understand our role as a collection of individuals, expanding the view of each and every one of us from that which is in front of us, to that which is all around us. 

Unfortunately, the same technologies that allow for this enlightenment also propagate any other number of ways to understand the world. It seems to be just as likely that our collective paradigm is maturing in a way that is, I feel, not as accurate, or maybe unaccepting of what might be revealed. However, the optimist in me hopes that we utilize this modern age to mature our collective understanding and appreciation of our roles here as humans. I don’t know what we’ll uncover, and perhaps we’ll uncover nothing at all; yet it is the prospect of what we’ll find inside ourselves today that gives me hope and excitement for tomorrow. 